.TH ZEN 1 "20 February 2001" "Zen Version 0.2.1" ""
.SH "NAME"
zen, gzen, fbzen \- the web browser of Your choice.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
zen [\fIOPTION\fR\|(S)] [URL]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Zen 
is a web browser with support for different user interfaces. These 
interfaces are given a simple API to the rest of the program, and
then get the freedom to act in whatever way they find suitable. 
.PP
The idea for 
.B Zen
comes from combining the nice, simple interface of Lynx, and the
ability to view images in the Linux framebuffer. This is because
it is much faster on some older machines, than it would be to run
it in X. With the flexibility of chosable interfaces, it is able
to run in X, as well.
.PP
Two additional variant programs, 
.B gzen
and 
.BR fbzen ,
are available, to provide shortcuts to the GTK+ and the oFBis
user interfaces, respectively. See \fBINTERFACES\fR below for more
information.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.B Zen
accepts the following options:
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-i " name"
.TP
.PD
.BI \-\^\-interface=name
Select which user interface to use for this session. 
(see \fBCONFIGURATIONS\fR and \fBINTERFACES\fR)
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-s
.TP
.PD
.BI \-\^\-source
Dump the object pointed to by \s-1URL\s0 on stdout.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-c " file"
.TP
.PD
.BI \-\^\-config=file
Extra configuration file read after all other configuration
files has been parsed, but before the other command line options
are interpreted. This option can be used multiple times, and the
configuration files will be parsed in the given order. 
(see \fBCONFIGURATIONS\fR and \fBFILES\fR)
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-d
.TP
.PD
.BI \-\^\-dump_config
Do not load the page, but dump the current configuration 
on stdout. This dumps the configuration after all configuration
files, environment variables and command line options has been
parsed. The dump is in a suitable format to be used as a 
configuration file for Zen. 
(see \fBCONFIGURATIONS\fR)
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-h
.TP
.PD
.BI \-\^\-help
Print a quick description of each command line option, as well 
as the available user interfaces. Then exit.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-V
.TP
.PD
.BI \-\^\-version
Print version and the available user interfaces. Then exit. 
.PD
.SH "CONFIGURATIONS"
Configuration for Zen can be made from configuration files, 
environment variables and command line options. All in all, 
the configurations are processed in the following order:
.TP 3
.PD 0
.RI 1.
Default settings, hardcoded into the program.
.TP 3
.RI 2.
Global main configuration file.
.TP 3
.RI 3.
User main configuration file.
.TP 3
.RI 4.
Extra configuration files, given on command line.
.TP 3
.RI 5.
Environment variables.
.TP 3
.RI 6.
Command line options. 
.TP 3
.RI 7.
Global interface configuration file. 
.TP 3
.RI 8.
.PD
User interface configuration file. 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.PD
.BI http_proxy
If this environment variable is set, Zen will try to use the given
URL as a proxy for HTTP requests. It should be in the format 
"http://proxy:port/". 
.TP
.BI ZEN_INTERFACE
This environment variable can be set to the name of an available user 
interface. It will override the configuration files, but not the command
line option \fB\-\^\-interface\fR. The symlinked program names, \fBgzen\fR 
and \fBfbzen\fR, will override the environment variable, but not the
command line option.
.TP
.BI ZEN_DEFAULT_PAGE
This is the default page, if none is given on the command line. It will
override any default page given in the configuration files. 
.SH "INTERFACES"
When compiled with all configuration options, 
.B Zen 
supports the following user interfaces:
.TP
.PD 0
.BI dump
A plain text dump interface, non-interactive
.TP
.BI ofbis
A graphical framebuffer user interface, using the oFBis framebuffer 
library.
.TP
.PD
.BI gtk
A graphical framebuffer user interface, using the GTK+ libraries.
This interface is run in X.
.PP
The keys following below can be used to control the 
.B oFBis
user 
interface in 
.BR Zen .
The mouse may also be used to select links.
.TP
.PD 0
.RI 'a' 
Scroll up 128 pixels
.TP
.RI 'A' 
Scroll up 1 pixel
.TP
.RI 'z' 
Scroll down 128 pixels
.TP
.RI 'Z'
Scroll down 1 pixel
.TP
.RI 's'
Scroll page up
.TP
.RI 'x'
Scroll page down
.TP
.RI SPC
Scroll page down
.TP
.RI TAB
Unshifted: Move highlight to next link on page.
.TP
       Shifted: Move highlight to previous link on page.
.TP
.RI RET 
Select highlighted link
.TP
.RI 'b' 
Go back to previous page
.TP
.RI 'f'
Go forward to next page
.TP
.RI 'r'
Redraw the display
.TP
.RI 'g'
Enter a new URL to go to
.TP
.PD
.RI 'q'
Exit Zen
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
.PD 0
http://www.nocrew.org/software/zen/
.TP
http://osis.nocrew.org/ofbis/
.TP
.PD
http://www.gtk.org/
.SH "FILES"
.TP 24
.PD 0
.I /etc/zen/main.conf
Global main configuration file
.TP 24
.PD
.I ~/.zen/main.conf
User main configuration file
.TP 24
.PD 0
.I /etc/zen/dump.conf
Global dump interface configuration file
.TP 24
.PD
.I ~/.zen/dump.conf
User dump interface configuration file
.TP 24
.PD 0
.I /etc/zen/ofbis.conf
Global oFBis interface configuration file
.TP 24
.PD
.I ~/.zen/ofbis.conf
User oFBis interface configuration file
.TP 24
.PD 0
.I /etc/zen/gtk.conf
Global GTK+ interface configuration file
.TP 24
.PD
.I ~/.zen/gtk.conf
User GTK+ interface configuration file
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2000, 2001 Tomas Berndtsson <tomas@nocrew.org>
.BR
Zen is distributed under the terms of GNU General Public Licence.
Read more in the file COPYING which comes with this distribution.
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PD 0
Tomas Berndtsson <tomas@nocrew.org>
.TP
Taylor C Carpenter <taylorcc@codecafe.com> 
.TP
(initial manpage)
